---
title: Accessing Task Resources During Execution
icon: creative
---

## Accessing Task Resources During Execution

Access to the [Task](../fhir/task.md) resources in [Service](../dsf/service-delegates.md) / [Message](../dsf/message-delegates.md) Delegates is provided by the `Variables` class. It comes with methods which return certain kinds of [Task](../fhir/task.md) resources. The most commonly used ones are the start [Task](../fhir/task.md), referring to the [Task](../fhir/task.md) / [Message Start Event](../bpmn/messaging.md#message-start-event) responsible for starting the process, and the latest [Task](../fhir/task.md), referring to most recently received [Task](../fhir/task.md) / Message.  
In principle, this is sufficient to access all information in a [Task](../fhir/task.md) resource, since there is access to the full in-memory representation of the [Task](../fhir/task.md) resource. This however can be very cumbersome to use and produces a lot of boilerplate when traversing the resource tree to access certain common elements.
Instead of navigating the [Task](../fhir/task.md) resource's element tree, it is recommended to use the [ProcessPluginApi's](../dsf/process-plugin-api.md) `TaskHelper` in conjunction with the method above. The `TaskHelper` class offers specific methods related to [Task](../fhir/task.md) resources.  
The most common use case for this is retrieving data from a [Task's](../fhir/task.md) [Input Parameter](../fhir/task.md#task-input-parameters) or creating a new [Input Parameter](../fhir/task.md#task-input-parameters) for a [Message Delegate's](../dsf/message-delegates.md) `getAdditionalInputParameters` method. When retrieving data from a [Task's](../fhir/task.md) Input Parameter one first has to get to the [Input Parameter](../fhir/task.md#task-input-parameters) one is looking to extract data from. The `TaskHelper's` getters for [Input Parameters](../fhir/task.md#task-input-parameters) are useful to find the right one. The methods will try to match the provided [CodeSystem](../fhir/codesystem.md) and Code to any [Input Parameter](../fhir/task.md#task-input-parameters) of the provided [Task](../fhir/task.md) resource. Depending on the method it is possible to receive all matches or just the first one.  
To create new [Input Parameters](../fhir/task.md#task-input-parameters) to attach to a [Task](../fhir/task.md) resource, one may invoke the `TaskHelper#createInput` method. This is most often used when overriding the `getAdditionalInputParameters` method of a [Message Delegate](../dsf/message-delegates.md).
