---
title: GMDS 2023
date: 2023-09-29
type: "news"
excerpt: "Under the theme 'Science. Close to People', the 68th annual conference of the German Society of Medical Informatics, Biometry and Epidemiology e.V.(GMDS) was held at the Bildungscampus of Heilbronn University of Applied Sciences from 17th to 23 September 2023."
article: true
category: 
  - News
tags:
  - News
  - Events
  - GMDS
---

## GMDS 2023

The 68th Annual Conference of the German Society for Medical Informatics, Biometry, and Epidemiology e.V. (GMDS) was held from September 17 to 23 at the Bildungscampus of Heilbronn University of Applied Sciences. It marked the first in-person GMDS conference since 2019, following disruptions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. The DSF team actively supported the organization of the event.

Held under the theme "Science. Close to People," the conference brought together leading experts in medical informatics, biometry, and epidemiology. It provided a forum for presenting recent advancements and showcasing innovative tools that foster collaboration and interdisciplinary research. Researchers and professionals had the opportunity to share cutting-edge insights into their work. A total of 227 scientific contributions were submitted to GMDS 2023.

We were pleased to present insights from our work with the Data Sharing Framework (DSF), sharing lessons learned from its deployment across German university hospitals. Our presentation focused on how the framework, originally developed within the HiGHmed consortium, aims to improve access to real-world patient data for biomedical research.

Further details about the paper and presentation are available here: [GMDS](https://www.egms.de/static/en/meetings/gmds2023/23gmds007.shtml)
