---
title: "DSF Community Meeting 2025 in Heidelberg"
date: 2025-11-18
type: "news"
excerpt: "The DSF Community meet-up in Heidelberg brought together developers and contributoers to share ideas and discuss the latest progress in the DSF Community project. Highlights included updates on DSF 2.0, API 2.0, and a sneak peek at the new Linter Tool. The event wrapped up with a look ahead to 2026."
article: true
category: 
  - News
tags:
  - News
  - DSF
  - Community
  - Events
---

**Recap: DSF Community Meeting 2025 in Heidelberg**

The annual DSF Community meet-up took place on Thursday, November 13th, and Friday, November 14th in Heidelberg. Contributors and developers from the funded project from Leipzig, Heidelberg and Heilbronn gathered to share ideas, connect, and dive into the latest progress around the DSF project.

Thursday kicked off with presentations on the **DSF 2.0 Release Candidate (RC)** and **API 2.0**, followed by discussions on a long-term communication strategies for future releases, hackathons, and other community initiatives. Afterwards, migration strategies for process plugins to the API 2.0 were discussed.

We had a first look at the brand-new **Linter Tool**! This tool will expand the support for process plugin developers and strengthens the DSF development toolkit. It’s still in active development but will be released shortly on GitHub. 

The day wrapped up with dinner and plenty of chatting at *Urban* Kitchen Heidelberg.

Friday startet with looking back at what the DSF Community achieved in 2025 and setting our project plan for 2026. We talked through key milestones, future events, publications, and both the annual and final reports.

All in all, the meet-up was a really productive and successful and shapes the further direction of the DSF and the community. Thank you to everyone who joined, contributed, and organized this years meet-up. 